{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 ArialMT;\f2\fmodern\fcharset77 CourierNewPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12120\viewh15480\viewkind1\viewscale100
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Mac Installer Notes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 The Mac package has several advantages over using the standard .jar file including better memory management. Once you have installed PCGen you will notice that the app appears in your applications folder as a standalone application file. The program directories are contained within the application package. You can easily access these directories by right clicking or control-clicking the PCGen.app and selecting "Show Package Contents" from the resulting menu. You will find all the familiar PCGen directories in Contents/Resources/Java/. To make access to this folder even easier you can make an alias of the Java folder and place it on the desktop, this is useful because open/save dialogue boxes will not see the PCGen.app as a directory which can be opened but it will be able to use the alias to get to the directory. For ease of use you can set alternate directories for most of these directories in the preferences, this is handy for things like a place to save characters.\

\f0\b Installing datasets\

\f1\b0 Third party datasets such as those made by Code Monkey Publishing are packaged in zip files who's directory structure mirrors that of the PCGen directory. On a windows system zip files can be unzipped into the PCGen directory directly, this can be done on a Mac as well but it's not as intuitive a procedure. You will need to use the Terminal application used to run Unix line commands on a Mac, you will find it in Applications/Utilities.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural
\cf2 Open two Finder windows -- one to where the .zip files of the CMP datasets live, and one to the folder above the Java folder in the .app distribution. (This should be, if you did a standard installation, /Applications/PCGen\\ 5.8.1.app/Contents/Resources/) \
\
Open a Terminal window. \
\
Type the following at the command; where you see "<drag XXX>", do exactly that -- dragging a file or folder to a Terminal window inputs the pathname where that file resides: \
\cf0 \

\f0\b Code
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 	unzip -d <drag Java folder> <drag .zip file>\
\

\f1 Repeat for each .zip distribution. It may ask you if you want to overwrite existing files; do so, as there are many files shared by all of the datasets.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Increasing memory\

\f1\b0 The PCGen Mac build is set to use up to 256mb of memory space but if you load a large number of datasets or if you run into problems outputting PDF's you may want to increase the amount used. To access this setting right click or control-click the PCGen.app and selecting "Show Package Contents" from the resulting menu. Find the Info.plist file in the Contents folder. Find the line which reads "-Xms128m -Xmx256m", this is the line which sets the memory usage, you can change it to "-Xms256m -Xmx512m" to double the memory.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 -- \
~ Eddy Anthony (MoSaT)\
~ PCGen Installer Chimp and Mac user}