{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf410
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Verdana-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset77 Verdana;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;
\f3\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;\f4\fnil\fcharset77 Verdana-Italic;\f5\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14200\viewh15460\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Subject: 
\f1\b0 PCGen Mac Build\

\f0\b \
Written by: 
\f1\b0 Conor Schutzman <conor@mac.com>\

\f0\b Updated by: 
\f1\b0 Eddy Anthony <eddyba@mindspring.com>\

\f0\b \

\f1\b0 Here is a fairly complete set of instructions on how to bundle PCGen for OS X.  \
\
\

\f0\b Step 1:
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Get everything you need. \

\f1\b0 \

\f0\b 1 A)
\f1\b0  So, first off, you will need the OS X developer tools installed.  If they didn't come with your computer/OS then you can setup a free Apple Developer Connection account (http://www.apple.com/developer) and download them from there.  The version I'm currently using is XCode Tools 2.2 which runs in Tiger.   \

\f0\b 1 B)
\f1\b0  You will also need to make sure that you have all of your OS updates installed.   \

\f0\b 1 C)
\f1\b0  Lastly, you will need the support files in this module of the PCGen project at:\
https://svn.sourceforge.net/pcgen/Trunk/installers/
\f2 mac-installer
\f1 .   \

\f0\b 1 D)
\f1\b0  Oh, and of course you will need to download the full version of PCGen from SF. \
\
Now that we have all the parts and pieces, we can start to assemble. \
\
\

\f0\b Step 2: Converting PCGen to be an OS X app \

\f1\b0 \

\f0\b 2 A)
\f1\b0  Launch /Developer/Applications/Java Tools/Jar Bundler \

\f0\b 2 B)
\f1\b0  On the first tab (Build Information), click on the choose button to the right of the Main Class field.  Navigate to pcgen.jar for the version we are building and select it.\

\f0\b 2 C)
\f1\b0  Make sure the "Use Macintosh Menu Bar" is 
\f0\b not
\f1\b0  checked, in OS 10.4 Apple changed the way the menu bar in java is handled and checking this will cause the app to crash on launch in Tiger. \

\f0\b 2 D)
\f1\b0  Make sure the "Anti-Alias Text", "Anti-alias Graphics", and "Growbox Intrudes" checkboxs are all checked. \

\f0\b 2 E)
\f1\b0  Make sure the JVM version is 1.4+ \

\f0\b 2 F)
\f1\b0  Switch to the Properties tab.  \

\f0\b 2 G)
\f1\b0  In the Type field, verify that it is APPL.  \

\f0\b 2 H)
\f1\b0  In the Signature Field Enter "
\f3 PCGn
\f1 " (without the quotes). \

\f0\b 2 I)
\f1\b0  In the Identifier field, enter: 
\f3 com.codemonkey.pcgen
\f1  \

\f0\b 2 J)
\f1\b0  In the Get-Info String field, enter the full version of the release (PCGen 5.16.1 for example)\

\f0\b 2 K)
\f1\b0  In the Short Version field, enter just the version number of the release (5.16.1 for example)\

\f0\b 2 L)
\f1\b0  In the VM Options field enter: -Xms128m -Xmx512m  (this is the memory defaults for the build)\

\f0\b 2 M)
\f1\b0  In the Bundle Name field, enter: PCGen <version number> (this is the name of the app)\

\f0\b 2 N)
\f1\b0  Make sure that "Set Working Directory to Inside Application Package" is checked.\

\f0\b 2 O)
\f1\b0  Switch back to the Build Information tab and click Choose Icon, navigate to "
\f2 PCGenApp.icns
\f1 " in the mac-installer/graphics/icon folder. You may have to paste it on the app after it is built anyway, I've found that it does not always stick for some reason.\

\f0\b 2 P)
\f1\b0  Click the Create Application button.  Save the application as PCGen <version number>.app into the folder you downloaded off of SF.\
\
This will encapsulate the PCGen jar file into an OS X application.  We then need to add the applications sub folders into the PCGen application package. \
\
\

\f0\b Step 3: Adding all the sub folders to the application
\f1\b0 \
\

\f0\b 3 A)
\f1\b0  Navigate (in Finder) to the folder where you put PCGen.app \

\f0\b 3 B)
\f1\b0  Right click on the application icon, and choose Show Package Contents from the contextual menu. \

\f0\b 3 C)
\f1\b0  Navigate to ./Contents/Resources/Java within the application package. \

\f0\b 3 D)
\f1\b0  Move
\f4\i  
\f1\i0  the sub folders from the PCGen folder into the Java folder listed above (and keep a clean copy of the 
\f2 filepaths.ini file)
\f1 .  You should end up with the following files and folders in the Java directory:\
\
	characters/\
	data/\
	docs/\
	
\f2 filepaths.ini
\f1 \
	lib/\
	
\f2 logging.properties
\f1 \
	outputsheets/\
	
\f2 pcgen.jar
\f1 \
	plugins/\
	system/\
\

\f0\b 3 E)
\f1\b0  Close the application package window.  Launch PCGen, verify that basic functionality is there. If you did not check "Set Working Directory to Inside Application Package" in the Jar Bundler things will appear terribly wrong at this point. \

\f0\b \
Note: 
\f1\b0 Once you have verified that PCGen is working as it should quit the program and go back into /Contents/Resources/Java and remove the .ini preference files that may have been created when you ran the program and replace the 
\f2 filepaths.ini file with a clean copy as your testing will have changed it's contents.
\f1 \
\
\

\f0\b Step 4: Disk Image creation
\f1\b0  \
The Mac build of PCGen is delivered on a .dmg disc image, you can either create a new disc image or you can use one of the existing installer images (recommended).\
\
To create a new disc image:\

\f0\b 4 A)
\f1\b0  Launch /Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.\

\f0\b 4 B)
\f1\b0  Click on the New Image button in the toolbar of the main window.\

\f0\b 4 C)
\f1\b0  Name this image "Install PCGen.dmg" (without the quotes). \

\f0\b 4 D)
\f1\b0  Make the size 100 MB.\

\f0\b 4 E)
\f1\b0  Set the Encryption to "none".\

\f0\b 4 F)
\f1\b0  Set the Format to "read/write disc image".\
\
To use an existing Mac build disc image:\

\f0\b 4 A)
\f1\b0  Launch /Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.\

\f0\b 4 B)
\f1\b0  Click on the Convert button in the toolbar of the main window.\

\f0\b 4 C)
\f1\b0  Select the disc image you want to convert\

\f0\b 4 D)
\f1\b0  Name the new image "Install PCGen.dmg" (without the quotes). \

\f0\b 4 E)
\f1\b0  Set the Image Format to "read/write"\

\f0\b 4 F)
\f1\b0  Set the Encryption to "none"\
\
Now you have an uncompressed read/write disc image to work with. I reuse this same image each time I put the Mac build together so you may only need to do step 4 once.\
\
\

\f0\b Step 5: Disk Image preparation
\f1\b0  \
Next we'll place the new version on the image:\

\f0\b \
5 A)
\f1\b0  Mount the Install PCGen.dmg disk image.\

\f0\b 5 B)
\f1\b0  Delete the previous app (if you are reusing a disc image) and empty the trash.\

\f0\b 5 C)
\f1\b0  Copy the 
\f2 PCGen_folder_background.png file to the image, in the finder with the disc image window selected choose menu: View > Show View Options (Command J)
\f1 . For Background click Picture and Select 
\f2 PCGen_folder_background.png (you won't need to do this if you are reusing a disc image which already has the background image in place.
\f1 \

\f0\b 5 D)
\f1\b0  Copy the new version of PCGen to the disc image.\

\f0\b 5 E)
\f1\b0  Open the 
\f2 Release Notes.rtfd file on the disc image with Text Edit. Open the html release notes that came with the the pcgen.jar file also with Text Edit, Select all and Copy. Go to the Release Notes.rtfd, Select All and Paste, save the file.\

\f0\b 5 F)
\f1\b0  
\f2 When you save the release notes the icon will revert to the default icon, Get Info in the Release Notes.rtfd and Read Me.rtfd files and copy the custom icon from Read Me.rtfd to the Release Notes.rtfd file.
\f1 \

\f0\b 5 G)
\f1\b0  Unmount/Eject the Image. You now need to create the final, compressed disc image.\
In Disk Utility click on the Convert button in the toolbar of the main window.\

\f0\b 5 H)
\f1\b0  Select "Install PCGen.dmg" disc image.\

\f0\b 5 I)
\f1\b0  In the Save As: Field, enter a file name of pcgenXXX_mac_install.dmg \

\f0\b 5 J)
\f1\b0  Set the Image Format to "compressed"\

\f0\b 5 K)
\f1\b0  Set the Encryption to "none"\
\
\

\f0\b Step 6: Upload to SourceForge
\f1\b0  \
You'll need to have admin access for this part so if you don't you may just need to send to disk image file to James, Andrew or who ever is handling the release to put it up.
\f2 \
\

\f0\b 6 A)
\f1\b0  Upload the disc image. I use SFTP (other methods are available), SourceForge has recently changed things so now each project has it's own upload space.\
The server address is: frs.sourceforge.net\
The user name and password are the same as your SourceForge account.
\f2 \
\

\f0\b 6 B)
\f1\b0  
\f2 Go to the PCGen SourceForge summary page and login (http://sourceforge.net/projects/pcgen). In the Admin menu select File Releases\

\f0\b 6 C)
\f1\b0  
\f2 Click [Edit Release] for the package you want\

\f0\b 6 D)
\f1\b0  
\f2 Click [Edit This Release] for the Release Name you want\

\f0\b 6 E)
\f1\b0  
\f2 In step 2 on that page you should see the file you uploaded with a check box on it's left, check it and click "Add Files and/or refresh View". The file should now appear in the file list\

\f0\b 6 F)
\f1\b0  Set the pop up menu under "Processor" to "Platform-Independant".
\f2 \

\f0\b 6 G)
\f1\b0  Set the pop up menu under "File Type" to ".dmg".\

\f0\b 6 H)
\f1\b0  
\f2 Click "Update/Refresh"\
\

\f0\b 6 I)
\f1\b0  
\f2 Grab a beer, you're done!\
\
\
\

\f0\b Creating an installation package 
\f1\b0 \
In the past we created an installer for the PCGen app but when Tiger became available some user had problems with it. Because all it did was to put a copy of the program in the Applications folder we discontinued this in favor of placing the program directly on the disc image. This allows the user to copy the program where they want it and there is no installer program to potentially fail. The installer notes are simply included on the disc image as well. \
\
Although we no longer use this method I've left the instructions on how to create the installation package here for those interested:\
\

\f0\b A)
\f1\b0  Launch /Developer/Applications/Utilities/PackageMaker \

\f0\b B)
\f1\b0  On the Installer Interface tab, fill in relevant information for the Title and Description fields (I usually just grab the PCGen boiler plate from the website for the Description field).
\f3 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f5\i \cf0 PCGen is a character generator for role-playing games. It currently is aimed at supporting as many RPGs as is humanly possible. The project's current focus is on OGL games (OGL is Wizards of the Coast's Open Gaming License). PCGen runs on Windows, Solaris, Mac OS X, and Unix/Linux using Java 1.5.
\f3\i0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \
C)
\f1\b0  Click the Show Installer Interface Editor, for the background choose Custom background and navigate to the 
\f2 /mac-installer/graphics/Installer_Background.tif image.\

\f0\b D)
\f1\b0  
\f2 Unstuff the mac-installer/text/Welcome.rtfd.zip file, it's stuffed because the file is really a folder which holds text and graphics and Mac just treats it as a file but SVN does not handle this well. Update the file if it need it. The mini splash screen graphics can all be found in mac-installer/graphics. In Introduction set Custom Welcome and choose the Welcome.rtfd file. \

\f0\b E)
\f1\b0  Open the html release notes which came with the release in TextEdit and save it as an RTF file with the name ReadMe.rtf In Read Me set Custom Read Me and choose the ReadMe.rtf file you just created.\

\f0\b F)
\f1\b0  In License set Custom License and choose the mac-installer/text/License.rtf file. This should not be edited. You can now close the Interface Editor by clicking the red button in the upper left of the window.\

\f0\b G)
\f1\b0  Create a new folder, it's name does not matter, it only matters that it is new. Move the PCGen.app into it, the contents of this folder is what the installer will be installing so it should only contain the app.\

\f0\b H)
\f1\b0  On the Contents tab, click on the Choose button to the right of the Root field.  Navigate to the folder you have the PCGen folder in.  Be sure that Compress Archive folder and Remove .DS_Store Files from Archive are checked. \

\f0\b I)
\f1\b0  On the Configuration tab, enter "/Applications" (without the quotes) in the Default Location field. \

\f0\b J)
\f1\b0  Set the Authorization Action to None. Set the Post-Install Action to None.\

\f0\b K)
\f1\b0  Check the boxes for Relocatable and Follow Symbolic Links.  All of the other Flags checkboxes should be off. \

\f0\b L)
\f1\b0  On the Package Version tab, in the Identifier field, enter com.codemonkey.pcgen. \

\f0\b M)
\f1\b0  Enter relevant information in the Get-Info String and Short Version fields.  \

\f0\b N)
\f1\b0  From the Project menu, choose Build.  Save the file as PCGen XXX Installer.pkg\

\f0\b O)
\f1\b0  Test your creation, make sure it creates the PCGen app in your Applciations folder, and that all of the files are installed.  I would launch PCGen for additional testing, just to make sure. \
\
We now have a nicely bundled installer package.}