Fantasy Flight Games - Sorcery and Steam - User Notes

CAMPAIGN MODES----------------------------------------------------------

Sorcery and Steam has two modes of use. The first is Steampunk as
Exotic. Firearms are Exotic weapons and the technology presented in
Sorcery and Steam is rare. The second is the Full Steampunk Campaign.
Firearms are common and are considered simple weapons and steam
technology exists throughout the campaign world. In this mode there are
slight  differences in some of the base classes as well as some class
variants.

If you are using the first mode, Steampunk as Exotic, you need only
load the main Sorcery and Steam source. If you want to use the second
mode you must load the main Sorcery and Steam source as well as the
optional Full Steampunk Campaign. This will re-type firearms into simple
weapons and make adjustments to the base classes. You must load both
sources to fully implement this mode.

NOTES ON WEAPONS--------------------------------------------------------

Guns as melee weapons. 

Firearms can be used as melee weapons by virture of the fact that they
have some weight and would hurt should you be smacked on the head with
one. To provide game stats for this use there are 3 items in the
equipment list, Pistol (As Melee Weapon), Musket (As Melee Weapon) and
Musket (As Melee Weapon with Bayonet). These items have no cost or
weight but if they are added to your character they will show up on the
output sheet with the correct stats for use as melee weapons. This is a
work-around for the fact that PCGen cannot now treat the same weapon as
both ranged and melee.

NOTES ON CLASSES--------------------------------------------------------

Artificer
If there are any technical knowledge skills in your custom files or from
other sources that you feel should be Artificer class skills you can
.MOD them to add the Tech TYPE (for example see Knowledge (Architecture
and Engineering).MOD) and they will become Artificer class skills.

Gun Glyph 
The Marksman class ability is listed under Special Abilities but the
benefit is not applied to the character sheet unless an equipment mod is
applied to the equipment item itself. To do this right click on the
firearm in the equipment list and choose Create Custom Item, then choose
Gun Glyph Weapon and buy it. Once equipped the appropriate bonuses will
appear on your character sheet. The cost of the mod is free and the
bonuses will only benefit a Gun Glyph character so if another character
uses the item there is no bonus. This mod is meant to reflect class
abilities and do not change the condition of the item itself. Note that
the weapon mod only apllies to the Gun the Gun Glyph constructed to
qualify for the class.
